 ANNAMALAI  UNIVERSITY 
PROFORMA FOR APPROVAL OF

PROJECT PROPOSAL
(Strike out whichever is not applicable)


		Enrolment Number : 2491900048
Name and Address of the Student 


	:	KANDULA SAI SANDEEP CHOWDARY
Ramaiah Institute of Management Sciences (RIMS)
#15, New, B.E.L. Road, MSR Nagar,
MSRIT Post, Bangalore
Karnataka 560054
Subject Area of the Project 	:	Human Resources
Title of the Project 
(In capital letters)	:	HR OPERATIONS
Name and Official Address of the Research Supervisor. 
(Bio-Data should be enclosed) 	:	PROF.SREERENGAN
Ramaiah Institute of Management Sciences (RIMS)
#15, New, B.E.L. Road, MSR Nagar,
MSRIT Post, Bangalore
Karnataka 560054
Signature of the Student 	:	
Date :		
		Signature of the Research Supervisor: 
		Name: PROF.SREERENGAN
		Academic Year : 2019-2021
		Number of Candidates : KANDULA SAI SANDEEP CHOWDARY

Encl : 1. Synopsis 
                         2. Bio- Data of the Research Supervisor 
(for office use only)

Scrutinised by 								Approved / To Resubmitted 


                                                                                           
                                                                                            Head – Management Wing 
SYNOPSIS OF
“HUMAN RESOURCES OPERATIONS”

By
KANDULA SAI SANDEEP CHOWDARY
ENROLLMENT NO: 2491900048
For partial fulfillment of the requirements of final year MBA curriculum of Two years Full time MBA (Industry Integrated) Programme.

Submitted to:





Through

 
                                                                     CONTENT
                   
S.NO	PARTICULAR	PAGE NO
01	INTRODUCTION	       4-8
02	STATEMENT OF RESEARCH PROBLEM	        8
03	REVIEW OF LITERATURE	       9-10
04	RESEARCH METHODOLOGY	       11-13 
05	REFERENCES	       14














INTRODUCTION:
      
The Human Resources are the most important asset of an organization. The success or failure of an organization is largely dependent on the calibre of the people working therein. Without positive and creative contributions from people, organizations cannot progress and prosper.
In order to achieve the goals or the activities of an organization, therefore, they need to recruit people with requisite skills, qualifications, and experiences as well as manage it. While doing so, they have to keep the present as well as the future requirements of the organization in mind. It is defined as, “a process to discover the sources of manpower to meet the requirements of the staffing schedule and to employ effective measures for attaching that manpower in adequate numbers to facilitate effective selection of an efficient workforce, taking care of the manpower in career life, providing  them adequate reward leading to job satisfaction”.
HR Operations talk to the everyday operations vital to meeting the desires of employees inside the enterprise. So HR operations are approximately how you control day-today troubles and comply with the legal necessities of using humans. It covers the questioning, shape and procedures at the back of the human troubles that decide a business enterprise’s achievement. 
In HR operations HR staffs are executed as center degree directors. The duties they accomplish are normally pretty visible to other personnel because they may be targeted at the day by day paintings issues attributed to the on-going desires of an enterprise. These consist of vital responsibilities which includes interviewing and hiring, worker joining, enforcing organizational rules, retaining employment law, resignation of personnel with proper very last agreement, compensation and advantage issues. In HR Operations management may additionally use and keep automated HR data structures.  




Theoretical background of the study:
HR Operations:
 HR operations crew is particularly answerable for post choice activities; due to the fact the recruitment crew is managing pre choice activities in addition to hiring personnel. So the key duties that HR Operations team acting in Organizations are given below:  
ON BOARDING FORMALITIES:  
After efficiently passing the scientific check recruitment crew offers him/her the joining bunch and informs to return for joining on a selected date. Similarly, recruitment group also informs the HR Operation group to behaviour the joining process. The becoming a member of bunch consists of letter of becoming a member of, worker details shape, and application for worker identification card, pool cell phone requisition shape, assertion form, financial institution account statistics, put up-employment reference assessments and acknowledgement of the code of conduct.  
 INDUCTION AND ORIENTATION: 
Induction is a technique of giving a top level view about the employer to new employees.HR Operations crew additionally organizes induction program in which they offer a brief overview about the organization to newly joined personnel for everlasting positions. The program is performed after every two months. The application is prepared for newly joined personnel who have become a part of organization.
 HRIS MANAGEMENT:  	
Like every other organization has its very own HRIS (Human Resource Information System) that's called  Human IT Solutions(HITS).Through HITS the organisation is maintained numerous obligatory sports consisting of leave verification, attendance maintenance, and profile updates, report training for different branch. So the HRIS management is some other crucial challenge for HR Operations team in an organization. 
• Leave verification 
 • Attendance maintenance
 • Profile updates 
 • Preparation for extraordinary department 
EMPLOYMENT CLARIFICATIONS:  
The HR operations group additionally responsible for presenting employment clarifications to personnel concerning one of a kind vital conditions. In this segment the HR Operations group troubles NOC (No objection certificates) and VISA forwarding letter (Request for VISA extension) for the functions of tour request (reliable and unofficial), pilgrimage, better study and other private motives of personnel.  
PERSONNEL DATABASE MANAGEMENT:  
The HR Operations group in organizations is likewise liable for retaining the worker documents and records into employee document. So employee database control is some other critical assignment of HR Operations team. Here the group is accountable to create, put together, arrange and replace worker non-public files according to worker ID numbers shape HITS into specific folders. Each personal document is diagnosed by using that unique worker ID number and department call which are referred to on the file and folder.  

HR POLICY AND IMPLEMENTATION: 
The creation of HR policies leads to setting a base through which employees can be managed well and situations can be handled. It also helps avoid compliance issues and legal backlash. Since the policies of a company are documented there can be no bias or partiality in their implementation.
EXIT FORMALITIES:  
Exit formalities talk over with process of quitting from a position. Completing go out formalities beneath law code is any other most important obligation of HR Operations group in an organization. The exit formalities are same for permanent and transient employees. If any specific worker desires to resign from his/her position he/she has to offer 1 month written notice to HR Operations even though letter of resignation. 


 DISCIPLINARY ISSUE MANAGEMENT:  
HR Operations are carefully related with implementation of company coverage and practices consistent with Labour regulation.so retaining the compliance and non-compliance of agency coverage as in line with Labour law is counted below disciplinary difficulty management in HR Operations. This operation is split into 3 components. They are:  
• Explanation: whilst an worker conducts any interest regarding non-compliance of Labour Law or concerning misconduct then the HR Operations group send explanation letter to him/her to expose the motive why he/she did non-compliance pastime which include unauthorized absence, habitual past due in or early out, taking leave without approval and so on.
 • Investigation: while convicted worker deliver respond to HR Operations with the aid of displaying his purpose then the HR Operations look into on that precise case to find out whether or not the convicted employee is responsible or no longer.  
• Action/caution: primarily based on the final results of right investigation the control takes the final selection as disciplinary action against the convicted worker. If the convicted worker finds innocent, then he/she simply acquire warning from HR Operations. On the alternative hand, if he/she find out guilty then the HR Operations take disciplinary action against that employee in step with Labour regulation and employer coverage.

OTHER HR OPERATIONS PROCESS:   
• Employee transitions of different branch (Transfer): HR Operations group additionally deal with the issue of employee transitions among special departments. Organization views transfers as possibilities to provide expert boom whilst the employee is uncovered to paintings within various departments/locations. Transfers commonly fall into one in every of two classes: the ones initiated by means of management, or those made in reaction to an employee’s request. Transfers initiated through the organization may be necessary to fulfil business needs. A switch allowance may be applicable in cases wherein the switch is from one town to some other. Transfers requests can also be initiated via any employee, both as a reaction to an inner job opening or alternate in non-public condition or pursuits. This request is problem to be had opportunities and control approval. Transfer allowance isn't applicable in such cases.
 • Confirmation: HR Operations team conducts the employee confirmation method. At first the HR Operations informs the road supervisor about a particular employee to appraise his/her overall performance. If overall performance appraisal is reach above 100% expectation, then that employee get confirmation as a permanent employee. On the other hand, if the overall performance appraisal is stay beneath one hundred% expectation then HR Operations enlarge the probation length for that specific employee. In an organization all permanent employees will be on probation for the preliminary ninety days of employment. This probation duration can be extended further for another ninety days best. The worker will be notified at the least 7 days earlier than the confirmation date concerning his/her affirmation/extension/separation of employment.

STATEMENT OF THE PROBLEM:
It entails a long procedure and commentary; it works at the blessings of corporation and worker. It maintains excellent relationship with consultancy, the SPOC constantly resolve the quarries, it could be whatever associated with business for an example: payroll problem, rewards recognitions, bonuses, hike in salary, project roll off, go out formalities, resignation attractiveness, relieving, returned ground verification and many others.




REVIEW OF LITERATURE:

1. Racelis (2009) - mentioned in his conference paper that –“High performance work practices include enrolment and determination methods, impetus pay and execution administration frameworks, and broad representative association and preparing. It has been contended that these practices can enhance the information, aptitudes, and .capacities of an association's present and potential representatives, increment their inspiration, lessen evading, and improve maintenance of value workers while urging nonperformers to leave the firm (Huselid, 1995).”

2. According to Mishra and Pallavi (2010) – “The organizations are taking up individuals related activities as there is a need to oversee HR favourably, so as not to lose the aggressive edge in ability that they have fabricated. Inventive HR sharpens along these lines help in building skills and capacities of the workforce. In dealing with their HR, organizations had on numerous occasions concentrated on values, put resources into work force, accentuated on meritocracy and thus accomplishing perfection in HR forms.
3. Jain et al. (2012) – "Featured the degree to which inventive HRM hones were being received by both Indian and remote firms working in India. Their exploration likewise inspected view of Indian HR administrators about perfect 'staffing hones. A blended system including subjective contextual analyses and an on-line study tended to both the examination questions. Three contextual investigations were led to investigate the distinctive kinds of imaginative HR rehearses pervasive among innovatively escalated MNCs working in India. A comparative number of contextual investigations were likewise led of Indian MNCs. The outcomes demonstrated a distinction in the way the remote firms see its human asset administration developments (HRMI) as opposed to the way Indian firms do. There was a more noteworthy accentuation on parent backup arrangements in remote MNCs something that Indian MNC had less as a worry. According to the examination, the Indian MNCs were unmistakably centred on overseeing execution from inside, and had set up creative culture building hones.

4. Tsai et al. (2010) - were of the view that -"Most research on the relationship between hierarchical execution, worker demeanours and Human Resource Management (HRM) hones had received a hypothetical system that recommended that HRM hones prompted HR results (e.g. work fulfillment, abilities, and so forth.) which thusly influenced hierarchical execution. In this manner they directed an examination that created and tried an elective perspective of the affiliation i.e. execution state of mind HRM relationship. This model portrayed the impact of authoritative execution on worker demeanour’s and the part of HRM hone as a middle person between the two.
.
5. According to Edwin B. Flippo - “Recruitment is the process of searching the candidates for employment and stimulating them to apply for jobs in the organization”. (1979) Recruitment is an activity that links the employers and the job seekers. So we can say that recruitment is a process of finding and attracting capable applicants for 19 employments. In simple terms, recruitment is understood as the process of searching for and obtaining applicants for jobs, from among whom the right people can be selected. Though, theoretically, recruitment process is said to end with the receipt of applications, in practice the activity extends to the screening of applications so as to eliminate those who are not qualified for the job.










RESEARCH METHODOLOGY:
Research layout:
As research layout is the association of situations for series and evaluation of records in a way that goals to mix relevance to the studieslmotive with financial system in system.
ExploratorylResearch is researchlcarried out for alproblem that has nowlnot been studied more actually, establisheslpriorities, developsloperational definitions and enhancelthe finallresearch design. Exploratorylresearch allows determine thelpleasant studies layout, facts-serieslmethod and choicelof topics.

NEED FOR THE STUDY:
•	The HR practices and the techniques that the Organization carrier follows for the requirement techniques in their required personnel and the way they provide services to their personnel.
•	 The hole among contemporary manpower and favored guy power of this corporation in addition to their customers. 
OBJECTIVES:
1.	To analyses the on boarding revel in an Organization
2.	To look at the pride level on boarding enjoy
3.	To look at the relationship among factors influencing on boarding enjoy and overall on boarding                 revel in
4.	To look at the connection among delight level and typical on boarding day enjoy 




SCOPElOFlTHElSTUDY: 
 The scopelof thelproject to providelintensive details of HRlOperations and offer tipslto any new worker on the way to move approximately in sporting out the paintings at organization and to work towardlpolicy and improvement manner.
•	Facilitatelthe brand new worker’slcapability to make a contributionlwithin the new position.
•	Increaselthe brand newlemployee’s consolationlstage within thelnew function.
•	Reinforcelhis/her selection tolenroll in thelorganisation.
•	Enhancelproductiveness.
•	Encourageldedication and employeelengagement.

METHODS OF DATA COLLECTION:
Primary data:
The primary data are those which are collected for the first time and thus happen to be unique in character. Primary data are the first-hand information collected through various methods such as observation/inspection , interviewing and questionnaire method when people come for walk-ins into the company. 
Secondary data:
The Secondary data, on the other hand are that which have already been collected by someone else and which has already exists
The sources of secondary facts which might be used are:
1.	Catalogues
2.	Websites
3.	Personnel manual
4.	Journals related to technical and mechanical enterprise

HYPOTHESIS:
OBJECTIVE: 
        To study the relationship between satisfaction level and overall on boarding day experiences.
H1:  satisfaction level prediction overall on boarding experiences 
H0:  satisfaction level not prediction overall on boarding experiences











References:
Books Referred:
Human Resources management - PK. GUPTA
Research Methodology methods and techniques – C.R. Kothari

Websites:
www.google.com
en.wikipedia.org
www.managementstudyguide.com 
www.management-issues.com
www.benefits.org 


















	

